The validation results give the best-case performance and, equivalently, the minimum aggregate error (as assessed by the performance metrics) imposed by using simplified physics from MCFL as compared to those used in the hydrodynamic "truth" model. This deviation from truth results from a combination of two simplifications: representing reach-averaged open-channel hydraulics using Manning's equation as stated in Equations #### and ####, and conserving mass across a set of reaches using equations #### and ####. We first present the marginal contribution to error from mass-conservation and flow-laws individually, followed by their combined effects on predictive performance. 

#### Flow-laws applied to reach-averaged observations

Results from the omniscient mass-conservation method (blue, rightmost boxes in Fig. ####) show aggregate errors from flow-laws only--equivalent to calibrating flow-law parameters using spatially distributed discharge at each reach-averaged location. These indicate a good agreement with true flow, with n/rRMSE generally less than 10% for fully optimized and less than 15% for partially optimized parameter sets. Variable-n Manning (Equation ####) outperformed constant-N Manning (Equation ####), with the former having a median fully optimized rRMSE and nRMSE of #### and ####, respectively, compared with #### and ####, respectively for constant-n Manning. 

#### Mass-conservation of perfect at-a-location predictions

The omniscient flow-law method (leftmost column of plots in Fig. ####) assessed the deviation from true flow resulting from mass-conservation only, allowing individual locations' flow estimates to match synthetic truth exactly. This mass-conservation alone (applied to true at-a-location flows) yielded n/rRMSE of less than 15% in all but a single case, and generally less than 5%. Height-informed MC (green, middle boxes) improved somewhat over constant MC (red, left-most boxes), but the magnitude of improvement was low, averaging #### and #### for nRMSE and rRMSE respectively. Trivially, applying omniscient mass-conservation to omniscient flow-laws resulted in perfect equality between estimated and true discharge as reflected by rRMSE and nRMSE being exactly 0 for this case (blue boxes in leftmost column of figure ####).

#### Overall picture for MCFL

Actual application of mass-conserved flow laws will not have access to omniscient methods, and the impacts of combined mass-conservation and flow-law errors must be considered together. 

Mass-conserved flow law results point to a median best-case performance between 3% and 5% for both nRMSE and rRMSE in the fully optimized case. At worst, this performance limit was between 10% and 18% nRMSE, and between 25% and 31% rRMSE when all parameters were optimized. Restricting the optimization to only non-bathymetric parameters yielded median performance limits of 4-8% nRMSE and 4-9% rRMSE, with corresponding worst-case values between 10% and 18% nRMSE and between 41% and 51% rRMSE. Worst-case performance limits tended to be from a single case--often the Platte River, discussed later--and most results were clustered around the median (Fig. ####). Mass-conserving the flow-law estimates tended to improve rather than degrade those estimates (blue points higher than corresponding red and green points in Fig. ####), especially for the constant-n flow-laws. 

